Welcome to this video about diabetes, a chronic disease that affects the way the body converts food into energy.
Today, we’ll explain the types of diabetes, their symptoms, causes, and treatment options.
Let’s start with Type 1 diabetes. This type of diabetes is an autoimmune condition
where the immune system attacks the insulin-producing cells in the pancreas.
Symptoms: Common symptoms include increased thirst, frequent urination, extreme hunger,
unintended weight loss, and fatigue.
Causes: Its primary cause is genetic, though environmental factors can trigger its onset.
Treatment: Treatment requires daily insulin use, along with constant monitoring of blood glucose levels.
Now, let’s move on to Type 2 diabetes. This type is the most common and is characterized by insulin resistance,
meaning the body does not use insulin efficiently.
Symptoms: Symptoms can be similar to those of type 1 diabetes but usually develop more gradually,
and sometimes, there may be no obvious symptoms.
Causes: The main causes include lifestyle factors, such as obesity, inactivity, and genetic factors.
Treatment: Treatment generally involves a combination of lifestyle changes, oral medications,
and, in some cases, insulin.
Lastly, we have Type 3 diabetes. This term is sometimes used to refer to insulin resistance in the brain,
which may be linked to neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s.
Symptoms: Symptoms include memory problems and other cognitive issues that may worsen over time.
Causes: Causes are believed to be related to risk factors similar to those of type 2 diabetes,
along with factors that impact brain function.
Treatment: Although still under research, treatment may include interventions to improve insulin sensitivity
and protect brain health.